docs/api/topics/firefox_os_addon_submission.rst, before:

.. _addon_submission:

============================
Firefox OS Add-on Submission
============================

.. warning::

    Firefox OS Add-ons in Marketplace are experimental and not yet available in
    production. This API is not ready for public consumption yet and can change
    at any moment.

How To
======

Like apps, submitting a Firefox OS Add-on involves a few steps. The client must
be logged in for all these steps and the user submitting the add-on must have
accepted the terms of use.

1. :ref:`Validate your add-on <addon_validation-post-label>`. The validation
   will return a validation id.
2. :ref:`Post your app <addon-post-label>` using the validation id.
   This will create an add-on and populate the data with the
   contents of the manifest. It will return the current app data.
3. :ref:`Update your add-on <addon-patch-label>` if necessary. **NOT IMPLEMENTED YET**
4. :ref:`Ask for a review <addon-status-patch-label>`. All addons need to be
   reviewed, this will add it to the review queue. **NOT IMPLEMENTED YET**

.. _addon_validation:

Add-on Validation
=================

.. note:: The validation API does not require you to be authenticated, however
    you cannot create add-ons from those validations. To validate and then
    submit an add-on you must be authenticated with the same account for both
    steps.

.. _addon_validation-post-label:

.. http:post:: /api/v2/extensions/validation/

    **Request**

    The zip file containting your add-on should be sent as the POST data
    directly. The ``Content-Type`` header *must* to be set to
    ``application/zip`` and the ``Content-Disposition`` header *must* be set to
    ``form-data; name="binary_data"; filename="extension.zip"``

    **Response**

    Returns a :ref:`validation <addon_validation-response-label>` result.

    :status 201: successfully created, processed.
    :status 202: successfully created, still processing.

.. _addon_validation-response-label:

.. http:get:: /api/v2/extensions/validation/(string:id)/

    **Response**

    Returns a particular validation. You should poll this API until it returns
    a result with the ``processed`` property set to ``true`` before moving on
    with the submission process.

    :param id: the id of the validation.
    :type id: string
    :param processed: if the validation has been processed.
    :type processed: boolean
    :param valid: if the validation passed.
    :type valid: boolean
    :param validation: the resulting validation messages if it failed.
    :type validation: string
    :status 200: successfully completed.


.. _addon_creation:

Add-on Creation
===============

.. _addon-post-label:

.. http:post:: /api/v2/extensions/extension/

    .. note:: Requires authentication and a successful validation result.

    **Request**

    :param upload: the id of the :ref:`validation result <addon_validation>`
        for your add-on.
    :type upload: string

    **Response**

    An :ref:`add-on <addon-response-label>`.

    :status: 201 successfully created.

Commit message:

Implement versions for FxOS Add-ons (bug 1201641)
Also added descriptions to the Extension while I was as it.

docs/api/topics/firefox_os_addon_submission.rst, after:

.. _addon_submission:

============================
Firefox OS Add-on Submission
============================

.. warning::

    Firefox OS Add-ons in Marketplace are experimental and not yet available in
    production. This API is not ready for public consumption yet and can change
    at any moment.

How To
======

Like apps, submitting a Firefox OS Add-on involves a few steps. The client must
be logged in for all these steps and the user submitting the add-on must have
accepted the terms of use.

1. :ref:`Validate your add-on <addon_validation-post-label>`. The validation
   will return a validation id.
2. :ref:`Post your app <addon-post-label>` using the validation id.
   This will create an add-on and populate the data with the
   contents of the manifest. It will return the current app data.

.. _addon_validation:

Add-on Validation
=================

.. note:: The validation API does not require you to be authenticated, however
    you cannot create add-ons from those validations. To validate and then
    submit an add-on you must be authenticated with the same account for both
    steps.

.. _addon_validation-post-label:

.. http:post:: /api/v2/extensions/validation/

    **Request**

    The zip file containting your add-on should be sent as the POST data
    directly. The ``Content-Type`` header *must* to be set to
    ``application/zip`` and the ``Content-Disposition`` header *must* be set to
    ``form-data; name="binary_data"; filename="extension.zip"``

    **Response**

    Returns a :ref:`validation <addon_validation-response-label>` result.

    :status 201: successfully created, processed.
    :status 202: successfully created, still processing.

.. _addon_validation-response-label:

.. http:get:: /api/v2/extensions/validation/(string:id)/

    **Response**

    Returns a particular validation. You should poll this API until it returns
    a result with the ``processed`` property set to ``true`` before moving on
    with the submission process.

    :param id: the id of the validation.
    :type id: string
    :param processed: if the validation has been processed.
    :type processed: boolean
    :param valid: if the validation passed.
    :type valid: boolean
    :param validation: the resulting validation messages if it failed.
    :type validation: string
    :status 200: successfully completed.


.. _addon_creation:

Add-on Creation
===============

.. _addon-post-label:

.. http:post:: /api/v2/extensions/extension/

    .. note:: Requires authentication and a successful validation result.

    **Request**

    :param validation_id: the id of the :ref:`validation result <addon_validation>`
        for your add-on.
    :type upload: string

    **Response**

    The newly created :ref:`add-on <addon-response-label>`. Note that an add-on
    version is created automatically for you.

    :status: 201 successfully created.

Add-on Version Creation
=======================

.. _addon-version-post-label:

.. http:post:: /api/v2/extensions/extension/(int:id)|(string:slug)/versions/

    .. note:: Requires authentication, ownership of the add-on and a successful validation result.

    **Request**

    :param validation_id: the id of the :ref:`validation result <addon_validation>`
        for your add-on.
    :type upload: string

    **Response**

    The newly created :ref:`add-on version <addon-version-response-label>`.

    :status: 201 successfully created.
